I agree that the 3 drivers for one task is bad for AMD. But there is a reason most people don't talk about. Even though the closed source driver is slower in most cases, GPU makers need closed drivers for "hiding" proprietary algorithms or optimizations that they don't want the open source driver to have It also has some Professional "guarantees" that corporations need for professional applications. I mean, AMDVLK sucks and garbles my laptop screens all the time. The open source driver, mesa+aco acquired by the Ubuntu ernstp ppa is "Mesa Almost Stable", and you have to accept that some updates bork some of your random Proton games. And the "Stable Mesa" Kisak for whatever reason is always 10-15% slower than the ernstp PPA mesa even based on the same code( AVX2 optimizations enabled on ernstp and not on Kisak?)

The problem is actually that AMD releases the official "PRO" drivers roughly 2-3 times a year, and it doesn't always support the latest linux kernels( It only supports Ubuntu LTS line of kernels, which is 6-12 months behind mainline itself.) So you would have to wait for AMD's ass for a quarter minimum even on top of Ubuntu LTS kernels for support, so the PRO driver is always 16months behind mainline in terms of kernel support. Unlike Nvidia's binary drivers, which is usually only one point release behind linux mainline kernel for support. If AMD supported PRO drivers are released monthly,and supports the latest mainline kernels better, then I would actually suggest the "PRO" driver instead of the open source mesa compiled by a "Third Party" awesome German. Shit, a standalone German engineer is releasing driver faster and more predictably than the whole "PAID by AMD people team".

The whole situation is in a toilet, that's why I don't recommend AMD GPUs for anything other than a very small primary display adapter running Xorg and Firefox just so you can save the VRAM on other Nvidia's GPUs to do real computational work. Having a ton of firefox and Xorg running on Nvidia GPUs waste 1-2GB of precious Nvidia VRAM, and you can offload it to a cheap $10 AMD GPU to actually speed up Tensorflow on Nvidia GPUs).

https://www.phoronix.com/forums/forum/phoronix/latest-phoronix-articles/1276147-experimental-ray-tracing-for-open-source-radeon-vulkan-driver-nears-upstream-mesa?p=1276212#post1276212
