Used D3 for a grad data viz course project a year or two ago. Extremely powerful but unless you are doing custom visualizations or are excellent in JavaScript and Visualization it’s a bit overkill. Much easier to do monthly reporting or even one off stuff in Tableau, Power BI, or the like. Tableau or Power BI I could pass to other analysts and without experience they could figure it out. If I sent them my d3 code they would cry.

Again if doing advanced visualizations for a large newspaper, commercial presentation, it’s extremely customizable and makes some really beautiful charts. 


D3 is still a useful library for visualization even if you replace the DOM manipulation with React, Vue, Svelte, etc. I think the trend is to use D3 as a library but use a more modern framework to manage the DOM.

I have a browser extension (treeverse.app) where the entire UI is D3. I probably wouldn't write it that way today, but the codebase dates back to ~2014 and it's held up fine. 


I used to use D3.js as the default go-to for data. Now I start with Vue.js, and use D3.js only inside some components when I need, animations between transitions.

D3.js, as someone else already noted, is "jQuery for data". And yes, it has its good parts, but the same as for jQuery) the problem is with:

- mixing static HTML/SVG with generated

- no modularization (every modularization is custom)

For the latter, while it may not be a big deal for small projects, for bigger it sucks.

For big stories, I created a game in D3.js. Modularization was... well, argument why I rewrote it a few years later to Vue.js.


We end up using some of the d3 helpers, like on axis & scales, but go straight to chart libraries + custom DOM/SVG/webgl for the rest, and normal React framework for interactivity. The d3 functional helpers are still real gems and IMO under-appreciated. I think it was rewritten a few years to help expose those better (e.g., for tree shaking.)

As soon as you go to react & friends, most of the d3 model does become redundant, and Yet Another Thing to burden the team. There's still a temptation to reuse beautiful d3 gallery items posted by others, but generally, they're annoying to patch up & now you must maintain them. Better to use dedicated maintained libs if that's what you want. There have been attempts to do Standard D3 Chart libs, but afaict it's a graveyard of abandonware, and I approach most efforts here with strong caution. (The trend for the last few years has been each bigco to release their own NIH framework and then abandon as the authors leave, and little incentive for D3 design consultants to maintain old projects.)




https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=22476930
