> I believe he is speaking of triple A games. Which tend to outsell their PC counterparts nearly 4:1. Yes, computer gaming is still technically driving more money because of Steam and it's endless sales on Euchre clones and Bubblepop Plus. The fremium games and such that everyone plays on their facebook goes into those sales numbers, too.
Technically, PC gaming is at least 10 times as big - there are usually 10 times as many people on Steam than say, Xbox Live at any given time.
The problem, though, is the PC piracy situation - it's pretty dismal with 90% piracy rate, while PS4 and Xbone are still in the negligible numbers. So if you're going to develop a game, you're going to want to do it on the platform with minimal piracy and recoup your investment. That's generally why PC ports come later, and why they typically suck - given typically poor PC sales even with discounts (piracy, remember), you want to recoup the porting costs. (And delaying the PC release means the game gets cheaper, which helps somewhat when talking about piracy - a PC game at $50 will be pirated way more than if you wait 6 months and sell it at $30 when the console version is discounted as well).
All's not lost - there are still companies putting effort into a decent PC port. And if the numbers are really $32B to $25B, given a console's much smaller sales number (like I said, there are at least 10 times as many PCs that are used for gaming, so it's a 10x larger market), then the PC gaming market is only doing OK.
And yes, I know there's some "unbreakable" PC DRM out there, but even that is falling - it's gone from a year to a few weeks now.
> -- http://m.slashdot.org/story/315933
