Feudalism was massively weighted in favor of the gentile social strata, they had control; not just economically but socially, including over things like marriage and freedom of movement. There were free tenants under Feudalistic societies but even they were limited by the whims of the social elite.

Capitalism and Feudalism are not just economic measures of society, they are measures of many factors. Capitalism brought widespread freedoms and that is the fundamental difference. Peasants could move beyond subsistence farming on a much larger scale, demanding higher wages with fewer restrictions and even choosing to work for different lords. So whilst the economic arguments you put forward have some validity you could quit your job, become self-employed and your boss couldn't imprison you for taking such liberties. You can choose who you marry, not work for free etc.These are all capitalism derived freedoms. Peasants "winning" feudalism and becoming landlords was actually the start of the change to a capitalistic society. Previously Feudalism was all about the lords demanding from the peasants and reaping the rewards of peasant labour. Peasants all had a similar social experience and remained within the peasant class, although there were different social constructs within that, there was no real upward mobility beyond it.

In our society you could become a CEO, this social mobility is one of the hallmarks of capitalism. It is not easy but you are not bound within your social class from birth. You can advance.

Capitalism also gradually reduced the significance of land ownership.

The freedoms, the potential for significant enrichment, and the possibility of social mobility are the significant differences between Feudalism and Capitalism. Marxist historians argue that capitalism still has an exploitative employer to employee relationship and that essentially agrees with you but Feudalism and Capitalism define more than just the economics, Capitalism is derived from Feudalism and this means that you can still observe some of the traces of the previous in the constructs of the new but that does not make it accurate to describe capitalism as pseudo-feudalism just because in both societies some people have found methods to gain enrichment off the work of others. Who can gain enrichment and how they can do so is still significantly different.

https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/comments/5p9a5d/cmv_capitalism_is_a_psuedofeudalism/dcpjkow/
