> iOS's security concerns about JITs aren't general-purpose. They only apply in the weird security model that Apple has set up for themselves.
The fundamental security challenge of iOS is that there exist things called "private APIs" - Apple-authored code that lives in the address space of a developer's application that the developer is not permitted to call directly. It exists so that "public APIs," a different set of Apple-authored code that is technically indistinguishable from private APIs (mapped in the same way, with the same memory protection, etc.), can use the private APIs in their implementation, and so that developers can call public APIs in turn.
In order to enforce this, Apple does static analysis and manual inspection of binaries uploaded to the App Store, and signs every page of executable code that can execute on an iOS device. (It's not very good static analysis. I've had an app rejected because it used a third-party framework that happened to share a symbol name with a private API, and I've had an app accepted and shipped that, at runtime, disassembled the code of a public API to find the offset of a private API, and did questionable things to the private API's static local variables.)
The ability of the app to generate code at runtime would completely defeat Apple's ability to do static analysis or manual review worth anything. It could, for instance, download a function from the developer's website and then execute it. For this reason, Apple has technical means to prevent you from running code that it did not sign. As a side effect, this prevents you from implementing a JIT.
The attacks described in that Black Hat presentation you link are about gaining "arbitrary code execution" with the permissions of the app, no more. In any other OS design, this isn't an exploit, this is how apps work. If you download a Windows .exe and run it, the .exe gets to supply arbitrary native code. If you download an Android .apk and run it, the .apk gets to supply arbitrary native code. If you go to a website, the website gets to supply arbitrary JavaScript (though not native code). Nobody is reviewing that JavaScript to figure out what it does; the JavaScript simply executes on a platform that restricts the abilities of all possible JS. That's how application distribution works.
Apple has chosen this very different model on iOS where apps are reviewed in advance to limit what code can run; under that model, being able to run arbitrary code is an exploit. But that doesn't mean that JITs, which necessarily require being able to run arbitrary code, are a security hole under any other model.
>
